
TCP : 

TCP/IP helps you to determine how a specific computer should be connected to the internet
 and how you can transmit data between them. 
It helps you to create a virtual network when multiple computer networks are connected.

1. TCP is heavy-weight. 
2.TCP needs three packets to set up a socket connection before any user data can be sent.
3.Using handshake protocol like SYN, SYN-ACK, ACK
4.TCP is reliable as it guarantees delivery of data to the destination router.
5.Header size is 20 bytes

UDP :

UDP uses a simple transmission method without implied hand-shaking dialogues for ordering, reliability,
or data integrity. 
UDP also assumes that error checking 
and correction is not important or performed in the application, 
to avoid the overhead of such processing at the network interface level. 
It is also compatible with packet broadcasts and multicasting.	

1.UDP protocol has no fixed order because all packets are independent of each other.
2.UDP is faster as error recovery is not attempted.
3.Header size is 8 bytes.
4.The delivery of data to the destination can't be guaranteed in UDP.
5.No handshake (so connectionless protocol)

RIP :

Routing Information Protocol is used by routers to send data from one network to another

MAC :

Media Access Control, uniquely identifies a device on the network. 
It is also known as a physical address or an Ethernet address. 
A MAC address is made up of 6-byte parts

DHCP :

DHCP is short for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol. Its main task is to assign an IP address to devices across the network automatically

ARP :

map a known IP address to a MAC layer address.

Netstat :

It provides useful information about the current TCP/IP settings of a connection.

What common software problems can lead to network defects? :

Client-server problems
Application conflicts
Error in configuration
Protocol mismatch
Security issues
User policy and rights issues

ICMP :

 It provides messaging and communication for protocols within the TCP/IP stack.
 This is also the protocol that manages error messages that are used by network tools such as PING.


	

